So, I talk of friendship
- is to have a friend.
If we have worries, we always tell to our
friends
but not to persons of acquaintance.
If you have problems, we'll never tell it
to somebody who we just know by-the-way,
but to our friends, and so friendship.
Even if you are a leader, you are a friend of the people.
Friendship is such that
you could share your secrets,
you could share your problems. You do that with Me.
And why not with each other?
It's a question of understanding that
Sahaja Yogis are all really friends to each other.
I think relationship of friendship is even higher than
any other relationship we could think of,
because there is nothing to be gained out of our friendship.
It never ceases and you just enjoy the friendship, that's all.
Then you can pull each other's legs, sometimes.
You could be little joking with another person,
making fun of another person. It's all right, it's friendship.
But this is the purest form
of understanding our relationships with each other.
And a friend is the one who is always,
for no rhyme and reason, concerned about his friend.
Before Sahaja Yoga, you could have only one friend
or at the most two. Three meant a crowd,
cannot have three persons as your friends.
But in Sahaja Yoga we are all friends, pure friendship.
Friendship of a very beautiful nature
- that you enjoy the joy of another person.
In vibrations you do.
If you feel the vibrations of another Sahaja Yogi, you really enjoy.
I have seen this kind of friendship
when we were young because that
time people were more open hearted
as my father had his friends.
He was a very orthodox Brahmin, a friend of his
and he was the chairman of an
organization all over the country.
And the school that, one of the schools where I was studying,
that organization was running.
So, he was the big boss in that school.
So, My father had to go for a case
far away and he took all his family
and he sent Me to the hostel.
He wrote to his friend that, "I'm going away
and my daughter has to appear for her final exams.
But I'm sorry I had to go, taking my family
with me. But this is a nice chance."
So, the friend wrote, "All right,
doesn't matter. You can go away.
I'm going to look after your daughter."
He came down and he stayed in the hostel.
Took a room there in the hostel.
We all were there.
He was a Brahmin, he would
not touch an egg. He was a Brahmin.
But he knew that I eat eggs and I am a non-veg.
So, this was about summertime had started.
But he would still put on his
overcoat or a raincoat and walk out.
I don't know from where he used to get eggs in the morning,
bring it in his room because it was a Brahmin school,
and secretly cook the eggs
for Me, and then he would call Me,
and give Me the eggs to eat. I said,
"I don't need them."
"No, no, no you have to have.
You know, Your father has gone
away, I have to look after You." So sweetly!
And he was the head of heads there, breaking his own
rules and regulations for Me that he was making non-veg food.
And then he would take all the,
see, shells of the eggs in a paper,
put it in the pocket in a big overcoat,
walked out and throw them somewhere.
Then he would come with Me to leave Me for My exams.
Evening again, he was there, waiting for Me.
He was such a big man, such a
great man, very much respected.
I mean, he was the head of the heads.
In friendship one can really enjoy!
You need a very large heart
to be a friend, very large heart.
If you look after your own child, support your
own child then you are a gone case for Sahaja Yoga,
but if you have that kind of a largeness of friendship.
There is a nice story My father used to tell us about friends
because My brother was, had lots of friends,
they used to go about gallivanting, this, that.
And then used to always criticize
that what father your friends come in.
They just look after your lawn sometimes
because somebody is fond of lawn.
Then another does that. And you don't people discuss,
argue anything - just, I don't know
how you enjoy each other's company.
He said, "No, we talk, it's not that.
No, no, we enjoy very much."
So, My father told him, "All right, I will tell you a story".
That there was a father who had
a friend and the son had a friend.
Modern times, I mean modern
these days is also old times, I should say.
So, the father said to the son that,
"You see, friendship is where,
you can always rely on your
friend and your friend can rely on you."
He said, "Really?" "Yes", he said so.
"Oh, my friends I can rely",
the boy said, "I can rely on my
friends". He said "Really?" "Yes."
So, father said, "All right, let's
test your friends and my friends."
So, they went down, they asked.
The father went with the son,
and went to these friends of the son.
And the son thought
- he told the son that, "You have to say
that I have murdered someone and help me."
He said, "All right".
So, they went to one friend.
That friend said, "You murdered?
Baba, you get out!" He closed the door.
Another one they went to, he closed the door.
Third one he said, "No, no don't say that you have
come to my house. I have nothing to do with you."
All his twenty friends said, "No".
He said, "All right, now let me go to
one friend of mine." They went there.
So, they knocked at the door,
knocked at the door. Door would not open.
Then he shouted, "I am here." So, the boy started
saying, "Look at this. Your friend is not even coming."
He said, "No, no, no, just wait and see."
So, about ten minutes later the friend came and
opened the door, and took him inside. "What's the matter?"
He said, "You know I have murdered somebody" -
the father said - "and so we have come to you for help".
"I knew something must be there
because why will you come at this hour?
So, I was collecting all the ornaments of my wife.
I mean, if you need money, I better give
you the ornaments. So, that's why I was late."
"But", he said, "if you have murdered, it doesn't matter.
Now, you've got children, I don't have.
So, you better tell them I have murdered.
Tell me how the murder took place,
I'll take the murder upon myself."
And the son was surprised.
He said, "No, take this."
Then the father said, "See now, this is my friend.
You had twenty friends and I have only one friend.
This is his friendship." And this kind of a
friendship, we Sahaja Yogis should have.
I mean with a friend you cannot be tense.
Cannot be.
That is first sign. And with your friend sitting
there, you won't doze off, and you won't sleep.
But you enjoy.
Once I was traveling by train and we had two compartments.
So, in one compartment myself and one old lady were there.
I mean, I was older than her but she though she was older.
And she was trying to sleep.
And in the other compartment were two friends.
They had met. Ahh! So they were enjoying.
He was hitting him and he was hitting him.
He said, "Aye, you!" And like that going on.
So, this lady said, "Look at these people.
They are not allowing us to sleep."
So she went and shouted at
them, "Will you stop this nonsense?
What is going on?" He said, "We have met
after a long time, you see, so, we are enjoying."
She said, "This is not the way. Why are you hitting each
other if you are enjoying? And don't talk loudly." She went away.
Then I went and said, "Now, you shout. I am here.
Don't say anything. I'll lock
the door. This lady won't come."
They were surprised. I said, "I am
enjoying the way you are enjoying each other."
They said, "You don't want to sleep?"
"No, no, I want to hear what you say to each other."
And they were surprised how I was enjoying
the way they were hitting each other
and enjoying each other.
So, this is how,
I have to tell you that we have to be friends.
We have to share, enjoy sharing.
There is no seriousness about it.
How can you be serious with your friend?
Just relaxed enjoying each other's company.
Even if you have to argue - argue, doesn't matter.
Even if you have a different view, it's all right.
But, you should not try to impose yourself on your friend,
nor your friend should try to impose.
But try to understand each other.
That's how we are going to learn such a lot.
You have to learn such a lot from each other.
For example, I learnt so much from French
you'll be surprised.
Learnt lot of things from French,
the way they have their art,
their ideas of art, their music, their culture.
Lots of things to be learnt.
So, you have friends in India,
you have friends everywhere,
you have friends now in South America.
Everywhere you have friends.
You just go ahead with My badge. Finished.
Oh! They will all jump for you,
they will do anything for you.
So, this friendship,
just think of it in this world we have
thousands and thousands of friends,
everywhere we go.
And this is what we have to know within ourselves
that we have to be ourselves
very, very friendly type, very friendly.
There is an openness between one friend and another friend.
There is no closeness. There is no tension.
There is no formality.
And reliance.
So much so that you can talk to them about what you want,
what is your need and what problems you have.
I hope you understand that love means
complete freedom,
to yourself and to others.
If you love someone, then there is
complete freedom and understanding.
But this love has to be very, very pure.
Complete understanding.
You have to feel that friendship.
And, you will feel very proud
that you have so many friends.
And real friends! You have so many friends
who are real friends.
You will be so very -
feeling a thing as if you
are a great personality
that you have so many friends in this world.
You are not alone.
Imagine before this what we had, so
many saints, so many great souls were born
and they were treated like singular people
and tortured, killed, poisoned.
They were alone.
But you are not.
You are all - are friends to each other
and the greatest friend you have is the Divine power,
which is looking after you and doing everything for you.
So, when you meet a friend, you know,
how you feel like just taking him to your heart,
just embracing.
And you don’t know what to do with that. And
sometimes it’s so much that you feel like beating.
Beating yourself or beating the friend.
That sort of a joy is Ahlada Dayini: that is Radha.
So, today let us now – the power of joy, we have to worship
the power of joy and this power of joy which is Ahlada Dayini.